# Home Service Robot - Robotics Software Engineer

Final Project for Udacity Nanodegree

## Overview

Demonstrate the final project output and its usage.

### Environment Setup

To run this example without issues, the following environment setup is preferred.

|                  |                          |
|------------------|--------------------------|
| Operating System | Ubuntu 16.04             |
| ROS2 Version     | ROS Kinetic              |


#### Folder Structure

```
HOME_SERVICE_ROBOT/catkin_ws/src
├── add_markers                             # Package to simulate obkect to be picked up using markers                         
│   └── src
│       └── add_markers.cpp
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   ├── package.xml
├── my_robot                                # Package for the home made service robot
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   ├── config                          
│   │   ├── base_local_planner_params.yaml
│   │   ├── costmap_common_params.yaml
│   │   ├── global_costmap_params.yaml
│   │   └── local_costmap_params.yaml
│   ├── launch                              # Contains the launch files
│   │   ├── add_markers.launch  
│   │   ├── amcl_demo.launch  
│   │   ├── mapping.launch       
│   │   ├── robot_description.launch 
│   │   ├── view_navigation.launch    
│   │   └── world.launch     
│   ├── maps                                # Contains map file for SLAM     
│   │   ├── map.pgm                         
│   │   └── map.yaml                        
│   ├── meshes                              # Contains mesh file for Lidar
│   │   └── hokuyo.dae                      
│   ├── rviz                                # Contains config files for rviz                        
│   │   └── navigation.rviz
│   ├── urdf                                # Robot and gazebo URDF urdf files
│   │   ├── my_robot.gazebo
│   │   └── my_robot.xacro
│   ├── worlds                              # Contains the gazebo world
│   |   └── myworld.world
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   └── package.xml
├── my_robot_interfaces                     # Package containing topic messages
│   ├── msg
│   |   └── RobotMoveState.msg
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   └── package.xml
├── pick_objects                            # Package for robot to pick up pbjects
│   ├── src
│   |   └── pick_objects_node.cpp
│   ├── CMakeLists.txt
│   └── package.xml
├── scripts                                 # Robot ROS launch files scripts
│   ├── add_markers.sh
│   ├── home_service.sh             
│   ├── pick_objects.sh
│   ├── test_navigation.sh
│   └── test_slam.sh
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
```


## Project Setup

1. Clone it to your machine.  `git clone https://github.com/kimsniper/Home_Service_Robot.git`
2. Navigate to Home_Service_Robot/catkin_ws
3. Run `catkin_make`
4. Open a separate terminal
5. Go to `Test Project` section

## Test Project

Navigate to /Home_Service_Robot/catkin_ws/src/scripts make test_slam.sh file executable

### SLAM Testing

1. Make test_slam.sh file executable
    ```bash
    chmod +x test_slam.sh
    ```
2. Execute test_slam.sh
    ```bash
    ./test_slam.sh
    ```
### Navigation Testing

1. Make test_navigation.sh file executable
    ```bash
    chmod +x test_navigation.sh
    ```
2. Execute test_navigation.sh
    ```bash
    ./test_navigation.sh
    ```
### Home Service Robot Testing

1. Make home_service.sh file executable
    ```bash
    chmod +x home_service.sh
    ```
2. Execute home_service.sh
    ```bash
    ./home_service.sh

## Packages Used

### 1. rviz: Ros Visualization

Description: RViz is a visualization tool that allows you to view and interact with ROS data such as robot poses and sensor data, the map your robot is building, and robot paths planned by the navigation stack.

Project Usage: Used to visualize navigation goal setting, markers, a home service robot, and a map using SLAM.

### 2. amcl: Adaptive Monte Carlo Localization

Description: AMCL is a ROS node that performs localization, which is the process of estimating the robot's pose (position and orientation) within its environment. AMCL uses a Monte Carlo approach to localize the robot based on sensor data (typically laser scans) and a map of the environment.

Project Usage: Used to localize and navigate the robot on the map generated by SLAM. Also used to set the goal to be reached using RViz, it is also used to programmatically set the goal for object pickup from the final project.

### 3. move_base

Description: Move Base is a ROS node that implements functionalities for robot navigation.

Project Usage: Worked within the AMCL project, responsible for setting goals for the robot.

### 4. gmapping: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) package

Description: Gmapping is a ROS node that implements SLAM.

Project Usage: This package was used to generate maps using SLAM, as demonstrated by the test_slam.sh script. It uses laser scan data to build a map of the world.

### 5. joint_state_publisher

Description: A joint state publisher is a ROS node that publishes information about the state (position and velocity) of the robot's joints.

Project Usage: This package allows us to publish information about the robot's joint velocity along with the robot_state_publisher to visualize the robot in Rviz.

### 6. robot_state_publisher

Description: A ROS node that combines information about the robot's joints (from joint_state_publisher) with the robot's description (URDF) to publish the robot's complete state.

Project Usage: Used for visualizing the pose of each link in the robot's body on RViz

### 7. gazebo_ros

Description: Gazebo ROS provides a bridge between the Gazebo robot simulator and ROS. It allows you to control a simulated robot within Gazebo using ROS messages and services.

Project Usage: Simulating the robot in the gazebo world.

### 8. map_server

Description: A map server is a ROS node that loads a map of the environment and publishes it on a ROS topic. This map can be used by other nodes, like AMCL, for localization or for path planning.

Project Usage: Publishes a map for robot localization and navigation using AMCL.

### 9. add_markers

Description: A customized package to show markers and publish them for Rviz visualization.

Project Usage: Used to visualize an object to be picked up by the robot.

### 10. pick_objects

Description: A customized package to programatically set the goals for the robot to safely navigate.

Project Usage: Used to visualize picking the object (marker) at the desired position and dropping it off at the desired location while navigating inside the world.